---
title: "What is TRISH?"
weight: 1
---

TRISH stands for Tree-Ring Integrated System for Hydrology.

This is U.S. NSF Funded project (Office of Polar Programs)
located in two research centers: Laboratory of Tree-Ring
Research, University of Arizona and Earth Systems Research
Center, University of New Hampshire. 

While the Yenisei River is the direct focus of the research, a
broad goal is an extension of the approach, methods, and tools
to other pan-Arctic regions. To assist other researchers, the
team is developing a new online toolbox (TRISH) that synthesizes
tree-ring signals for the heat and volume of Yenisei River and
adopts a non-parametric statistics for the spatial
reconstruction.

The online TRISH will be built on the existing RIMS platform
hosted by the University of New Hampshire. RIMS is Regional
Integrated Mapping System, an online tool for multidisciplinary
data storage, visualization, analysis, and manipulation with a
focus on hydrological applications. The RIMS data pool covers a
variety of themes (e.g., climate, hydrology, land cover, and
demographics) and comprises over 15,000 data sets. Recently, the
platform has embedded the University of New Hampshire Water
Balance Model (WBM model). The WBM and TRISH will be
complemented by hydrograph routing model (HRM) for gauged river
data control.

This tool is open access infrastructure for both research and
education that enables societal understanding of natural hazards
and environmental change induced by the Arctic amplification.
TRISH Tool website will be open to public in Summer 2022. We
look forward to your discoveries on this platform.
