---
title: "Projection of Climate Change on the YRB Discharge"
weight: 6
primaryimage: "./map_gcm_projection.png"
---

The increasing concentration of greenhouse gases is projected to
contribute an additional Arctic warming of about 4–7°C over the
next 100 years. The warming trend strongly influence the
evaporation and snowmelt regimes at the YRB, and in combination
with precipitation change alters freshwater inflow to the Arctic
Ocean. The Yenisei River contributes 22% of the average annual
freshwater inflow to the Arctic Ocean, which impacts changes in
sea ice (e.g., albedo) and deep ocean circulation. GCM
projections suggest increasing concentration of greenhouse gases
and leads to strong warming combined with precipitation increase
in the YRB by the end of the 21st century (see GCM map). Many
studies point to increase of annual mean discharge (up to 15.6%)
by the end of the 21st century, with a shift to an earlier
seasonal peak discharge because of earlier snowmelt. The
projected increase in discharge is associated with increases in
both annual precipitation and annual evaporation. The regional
warming potentially increases the freshwater inflow through
various pathways, including increased precipitation, altered
timing of snowmelt, and melting of permafrost. Changes in
vegetation associated with the warming trend also trigger
changes in carbon storage, alteration of runoff patterns, and
forest fire that impact the YRB flux of water and energy into
the Arctic Ocean. 

Map showing GCM projections of changes in prescription and
temperature (top) and annual total precipitation (bottom) in
response to increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases.
Contact us for more information about the simulation results.