---
title: "Impacts of Climate Change on the Yenisei River Basin"
weight: 7
primaryimage: "./krasnoyasrk_flood_2020.png"
---

The general trend in annual precipitation of Siberia appears to
be toward precipitation increase. Summary of various
precipitation studies under the climatic change in Siberia shows
that annual precipitation increased by about 10% from the first
to the second half of the 20th century, but has been
subsequently stabilized. Cold season precipitation, on the other
hand, has been recently increasing. Although summer
precipitation has not significantly changed in the total amount,
heavy rainfall events have become more common in recent years
(see photo). Overall, Siberia experiences an increase in winter
average and maximum snow depths. The snow tendency in Siberia is
to Canada and Alaska.

While the annual discharge of Siberian rivers flowing to the
Arctic has generally been increasing in recent decades,
attribution of the trend to climatic factors is extremely
difficult. Streamflow trends in the YRB is particularly complex
due to the thawing of permafrost (+) and increased evaporation
associated with atmospheric warming (-). Additionally, the
natural variance of streamflow records is heavily distorted by
anthropogenic factors. Numerous large hydrological dams and
reservoirs since the mid of the 20th Century.

Any hydrological modeling in the YRB concerns about huge
uncertainties in historical climate networks due to the spars
and irregular nature of observations, which challenge the
assessment of precipitation-discharge linkages. Tree-ring proxy
is the independent parameter of hydrological variability in the
YRB that will be tested and applied to solve these
uncertainties.

Photo: Flood after very heavy rain in Krasnoyarsk city, May
2020.